PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities - add (#37734)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/publickeycredential/getclientcapabilities_static/index.md

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to a {{jsxref("Map")}} of client capability strings and a boolean indicating whether or not the corresponding capability or extension is supported.

The client capability strings are:

- `conditionalCreate`
  - : The WebAuthn Client is capable of conditional mediation for registration ceremonies.
- `conditionalGet`
  - : The WebAuthn Client is capable of conditional mediation for authentication ceremonies.
    This capability is equivalent to isConditionalMediationAvailable() resolving to true.
- `hybridTransport`
  - : The WebAuthn Client supports usage of the hybrid transport.
- `passkeyPlatformAuthenticator`
  - : The WebAuthn Client supports usage of a passkey platform authenticator, locally and/or via hybrid transport.
- `userVerifyingPlatformAuthenticator`
  - : The WebAuthn Client supports usage of a user-verifying platform authenticator.
- `relatedOrigins`
  - : The WebAuthn Client supports Related Origin Requests.
- `signalAllAcceptedCredentials`
  - : The WebAuthn Client supports signalAllAcceptedCredentials().
- `signalCurrentUserDetails`
  - : The WebAuthn Client supports signalCurrentUserDetails().
- `signalUnknownCredential`

>   - : The WebAuthn Client supports signalUnknownCredential().

Author: Need to check what these all mean - straight out of spec. I.e. what methods they indicate, and whether we need to add docs for those methods. Cross linking.

The [web extension](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions) strings are formatted by prefixing the [extension identifier](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions#available_extensions) with the prefix `extension:`.
For example, the key `extension.appid` can be used to check if the [`appid` extension](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions#appid) is supported.

### Exceptions

The returned {{jsxref("Promise")}} may be rejected with the following values:

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : The Web Authentication API is not allowed in the current browsing context.
    For example, it might be blocked by a permission policy.

## Examples

<!--
```js
PublicKeyCredential.isUserVerifyingPlatformAuthenticatorAvailable()
  .then((available) => {
    if (available) {
      // We can proceed with the creation of a PublicKeyCredential
      // with this authenticator
    } else {
      // Use another kind of authenticator or a classical login/password
      // workflow
    }
  })
  .catch((err) => {
    // Something went wrong
    console.error(err);
  });

> ```

Author: Provide example

-->

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

<!--
## See also

> -->

Author: Cross link to guide

A relying party (RP) can use this information to appropriately customize its sign-in and sign-up user interfaces and workflows.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to an object where the property names are the client capability strings, and the values are boolean values that indicate whether or not the corresponding capability or extension is supported.

The WebAuthn client capability strings are:

- `conditionalCreate`
  - : The client is capable of conditional mediation when creating/registering credentials.
- `conditionalGet`
  - : The client is capable of conditional mediation when authenticating credentials (using [`mediation=conditional`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get#conditional) in your [`get()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get) call).

>     This means that the client supports workflows where the credentials can be silently fetched/auto-filled on sign in.

Author: ```suggestion
```

    This capability is equivalent to [`isConditionalMediationAvailable()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/isConditionalMediationAvailable_static) resolving to `true`.
- `hybridTransport`
  - : The client supports usage of the [hybrid](/en-US/docs/Web/API/AuthenticatorAttestationResponse/getTransports#hybrid) transport.
    This means the the client can use authenticators that rely on Bluetooth, NFC or USB.
- `passkeyPlatformAuthenticator`

>   - : The client supports usage of a passkey platform authenticator, locally and/or via hybrid transport.
>     These authenticators enable passwordless multi-factor authentication, providing proof of possession of a credential private key provide and requiring a second authentication mechanism such as a PIN or biometric check.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : The client allows usage of a passkey authenticator that supports multi-factor authentication mechanisms such as a PIN or biometric check.
     The authenticator can part of the same platform (device) as the client, or connected via a hybrid transport such as Bluetooth or USB.
     See [Passkeys developer guide for relying parties](https://developers.google.com/identity/passkeys/developer-guides).
```

The WebAuthn client capability strings are:

- `conditionalCreate`
  - : The client is capable of conditional mediation when creating/registering credentials.
- `conditionalGet`
  - : The client is capable of conditional mediation when authenticating credentials (using [`mediation=conditional`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get#conditional) in your [`get()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get) call).
    This means that the client supports workflows where the credentials can be silently fetched/auto-filled on sign in.
    This capability is equivalent to [`isConditionalMediationAvailable()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/isConditionalMediationAvailable_static) resolving to `true`.
- `hybridTransport`
  - : The client supports usage of the [hybrid](/en-US/docs/Web/API/AuthenticatorAttestationResponse/getTransports#hybrid) transport.
    This means the the client can use authenticators that rely on Bluetooth, NFC or USB.
- `passkeyPlatformAuthenticator`
  - : The client allows usage of a passkey authenticator that supports multi-factor authentication mechanisms such as a PIN or biometric check.

>      The authenticator can part of the same platform (device) as the client, or connected via a hybrid transport such as Bluetooth or USB.

Author: ```suggestion
     The authenticator can be part of the same platform (device) as the client, or connected via a hybrid transport such as Bluetooth or USB.
```

     See [Passkeys developer guide for relying parties](https://developers.google.com/identity/passkeys/developer-guides).
- `userVerifyingPlatformAuthenticator`

>   - : The client supports usage of a user-verifying platform authenticator.
>     These require user input for authorization.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : The client has a platform authenticator (part of the same device) that support multi-factor authentication mechanisms, such as a PIN or biometric check.
     The credentials may be stored on either the RP or the authenticator.
```

FYI, this table defines the types https://w3c.github.io/webauthn/#passkey-platform-authenticator

From other sources it seems like this type is like the older definition of a passkey platform thingy, specifying passkeys and hybrid support.

I suspect that perhaps this mechanism doesn't require a "passkey", but as I said, passkey looks like a private key, and that's no different from everything else in the webauthn flow.

---
title: "PublicKeyCredential: getClientCapabilities() static method"
short-title: getClientCapabilities()
slug: Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/getClientCapabilities_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities_static
---

{{APIRef("Web Authentication API")}}{{securecontext_header}}

The **`getClientCapabilities()`** static method of the {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential")}} interface returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with an object that can be used to check whether or not particular WebAuthn client capabilities and [extensions](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions) are supported.

A relying party (RP) can use this information to appropriately customize its sign-in and sign-up user interfaces and workflows.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to an object where the property names are the client capability strings, and the values are boolean values that indicate whether or not the corresponding capability or extension is supported.

The WebAuthn client capability strings are:

> - `conditionalCreate`
>   - : The client is capable of creating [discoverable credentials](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#discoverable_credentials_and_conditional_mediation).
> - `conditionalGet`
>   - : The client is capable of authenticating using [discoverable credentials](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#discoverable_credentials_and_conditional_mediation).
>     This capability is equivalent to [`isConditionalMediationAvailable()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/isConditionalMediationAvailable_static) resolving to `true`.
> - `hybridTransport`
>   - : The client supports usage of the [hybrid](/en-US/docs/Web/API/AuthenticatorAttestationResponse/getTransports#hybrid) transport.
>     This means that the client can use authenticators that rely on Bluetooth, NFC or USB.
> - `passkeyPlatformAuthenticator`

Author: ```suggestion
- `"conditionalCreate"`
  - : The client is capable of creating [discoverable credentials](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#discoverable_credentials_and_conditional_mediation).
- `"conditionalGet"`
  - : The client is capable of authenticating using [discoverable credentials](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#discoverable_credentials_and_conditional_mediation).
    This capability is equivalent to [`isConditionalMediationAvailable()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/isConditionalMediationAvailable_static) resolving to `true`.
- `"hybridTransport"`
  - : The client supports usage of the [hybrid](/en-US/docs/Web/API/AuthenticatorAttestationResponse/getTransports#hybrid) transport.
    This means that the client can use authenticators that rely on Bluetooth, NFC or USB.
- `"passkeyPlatformAuthenticator"`
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to an object where the property names are the client capability strings, and the values are boolean values that indicate whether or not the corresponding capability or extension is supported.

The WebAuthn client capability strings are:

- `"conditionalCreate"`
  - : The client is capable of creating [discoverable credentials](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#discoverable_credentials_and_conditional_mediation).
- `"conditionalGet"`
  - : The client is capable of authenticating using [discoverable credentials](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#discoverable_credentials_and_conditional_mediation).
    This capability is equivalent to [`isConditionalMediationAvailable()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/isConditionalMediationAvailable_static) resolving to `true`.
- `"hybridTransport"`
  - : The client supports usage of the [hybrid](/en-US/docs/Web/API/AuthenticatorAttestationResponse/getTransports#hybrid) transport.

>     This means that the client can use authenticators that rely on Bluetooth, NFC or USB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This means that the client can use authenticators that rely on Bluetooth, NFC, or USB.
```

- `"passkeyPlatformAuthenticator"`
  - : The client allows usage of a passkey authenticator that supports multi-factor authentication mechanisms such as a PIN or biometric check.
    The authenticator can be part of the same platform (device) as the client, or connected via a hybrid transport such as Bluetooth or USB.
    The credentials are stored on the authenticator.
    See [Passkeys developer guide for relying parties](https://developers.google.com/identity/passkeys/developer-guides).
- `userVerifyingPlatformAuthenticator`

>   - : The client has a platform authenticator (part of the same device) that support multi-factor authentication mechanisms, such as a PIN or biometric check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The client has a platform authenticator (part of the same device) that supports multi-factor authentication mechanisms, such as a PIN or biometric check.
```

    The credentials may be stored on either the RP or the authenticator.
- `relatedOrigins`
  - : The client supports [Related Origin Requests](https://web.dev/articles/webauthn-related-origin-requests).
    These clients allow a passkey to be used across multiple sites that have the same origin.
- `signalAllAcceptedCredentials`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalAllAcceptedCredentials()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalAllAcceptedCredentials_static) static method.

>     If not supported, then RP workflows will need to prompt the user to manually delete credentials from the authenticator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If not supported, RP workflows will need to prompt the user to manually update credentials on the authenticator.
```

Author: Thanks @chrisdavidmills - it is about deleting. All we're supplying is a set of credential ids for which we have valid data - the only thing authenticator can do is delete or hide the missing ones in its records. If it encountered an id that was new it couldn't create a new credential (or modify info about the associated user, because it wouldn't know which ID to modify). I'll take your grammar corrections with pleasure!

```suggestion
    If not supported, RP workflows will need to prompt the user to manually delete credentials on the authenticator.
```

- `signalCurrentUserDetails`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalCurrentUserDetails()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalCurrentUserDetails_static) static method.

>     If not supported, then RP workflows will need to prompt the user to manuall update user details on the authenticator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If not supported, RP workflows will need to prompt the user to manually update user details on the authenticator.
```

- `signalUnknownCredential`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalUnknownCredential()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalUnknownCredential_static) static method.

>     If not supported, then RP workflows will need to prompt the user to manually delete credentials from the authenticator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If not supported, RP workflows will need to prompt the user to manually delete credentials from the authenticator.
```

The [web extension](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions) strings are formatted by prefixing the [extension identifier](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions#available_extensions) with the prefix `extension:`.

> For example, the key `extension.appid` can be used to check if the [`appid` extension](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions#appid) is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the key `extension:appid` can be used to check if the [`appid` extension](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions#appid) is supported.
```

### Exceptions

The returned {{jsxref("Promise")}} may be rejected with the following values:

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : The Web Authentication API is not allowed in the current browsing context.
    For example, it might be blocked by a permission policy.

## Description

`getClientCapabilities()` allows you to check if a given capability or extension is supported, and use the information to offer an appropriate user experience.

For example, support for the `userVerifyingPlatformAuthenticator` capability indicates that biometrics such as a fingerprint sensor are allowed.
A web application could use this to display a fingerprint icon if the capability is supported, or a password input if it is not.
If biometric login is required, then it could instead provide notification that the site cannot authenticate using this browser or device.

> Similarly, `conditionalGet` indicates that the client supports conditional mediation when signing in a user, which means the browser can provide autofilled discoverable credentials in a login form (for example an autocompeting text field or a drop-down list), along with a sign-in button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, `conditionalGet` indicates that the client supports conditional mediation when signing in a user, which means the browser can provide auto-filled discoverable credentials in a login form (for example an autocompleting text field or a drop-down list), along with a sign-in button.
```

---
title: "PublicKeyCredential: getClientCapabilities() static method"
short-title: getClientCapabilities()
slug: Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/getClientCapabilities_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities_static
---

{{APIRef("Web Authentication API")}}{{securecontext_header}}

The **`getClientCapabilities()`** static method of the {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential")}} interface returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with an object that can be used to check whether or not particular WebAuthn client capabilities and [extensions](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions) are supported.

A web application can use the information to appropriately customize the user interface and workflows.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to an object where the property names are the client capability strings, and the values are boolean values that indicate whether or not the corresponding capability or extension is supported.

The WebAuthn client capability strings are:

- `conditionalCreate`

>   - : The client is capable of conditional mediation when creating/registering credentials.

Author: We know a bit about what `conditionalGet` means - essentially you can get the login credentials automatically from somewhere else such as credential manager. But  what does `conditionalCreate` even mean? 

What I'm trying to do in these is provide a link to more information and at least a flavour of how you might actually use these for configuration of your workflow.

Reviewer: At this point, you could just link to my new section on the main Webauthn page for more info? Maybe also say something like "meaning that it is capable of creating discoverable credentials"?

Author: I like that. Of course I might be creating broken links if this merges first, but should fix itself up pretty soon.

```suggestion
- `conditionalCreate`
  - : The client is capable of creating [discoverable credentials](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#discoverable_credentials_and_conditional_mediation).
```

- `passkeyPlatformAuthenticator`
  - : The client supports usage of a passkey platform authenticator, locally and/or via hybrid transport.
    These authenticators enable passwordless multi-factor authentication, providing proof of possession of a credential private key provide and requiring a second authentication mechanism such as a PIN or biometric check.
- `userVerifyingPlatformAuthenticator`
  - : The client supports usage of a user-verifying platform authenticator.
    These require user input for authorization.
- `relatedOrigins`
  - : The client supports [Related Origin Requests](https://web.dev/articles/webauthn-related-origin-requests).
    These clients allow a passkey to be used across multiple sites that have the same origin.
- `signalAllAcceptedCredentials`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalAllAcceptedCredentials()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalAllAcceptedCredentials_static) static method.
- `signalCurrentUserDetails`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalCurrentUserDetails()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalCurrentUserDetails_static) static method.
- `signalUnknownCredential`

>   - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalUnknownCredential()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalUnknownCredential_static) static method.

Author: These definitions will be provided by #37557.

Obviously if you know the methods don't exist then you wouldn't call them, but I am not sure what use they are otherwise/how you could use them to condition the UI? Specifically, these allow the RP an authenticator to remain in sync - if you don't support these though, there is no way to tell the authenticator to update, so what can you do?

Reviewer: I think the idea is that if the methods are not available, you just have to encourage the user to delete the credentials from the authenticator.

Author: ```suggestion
- `signalAllAcceptedCredentials`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalAllAcceptedCredentials()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalAllAcceptedCredentials_static) static method.
     If this (and the other `signalXxx` methods below) is not supported, then RP workflows will need to prompt the user to delete credentials from the authenticator manually.
- `signalCurrentUserDetails`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalCurrentUserDetails()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalCurrentUserDetails_static) static method.
- `signalUnknownCredential`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalUnknownCredential()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalUnknownCredential_static) static method.
```

---
title: "PublicKeyCredential: getClientCapabilities() static method"
short-title: getClientCapabilities()
slug: Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/getClientCapabilities_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities_static
---

{{APIRef("Web Authentication API")}}{{securecontext_header}}

The **`getClientCapabilities()`** static method of the {{domxref("PublicKeyCredential")}} interface returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with an object that can be used to check whether or not particular WebAuthn client capabilities and [extensions](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions) are supported.

> A web application can use the information to appropriately customize the user interface and workflows.

Author: I like.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to an object where the property names are the client capability strings, and the values are boolean values that indicate whether or not the corresponding capability or extension is supported.

The WebAuthn client capability strings are:

- `conditionalCreate`
  - : The client is capable of conditional mediation when creating/registering credentials.
- `conditionalGet`

>   - : The client is capable of conditional mediation when authenticating credentials (using [`mediation=conditional`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get#conditional) in your [`get()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get) call).

Author: Yes. Damn good idea.

```suggestion
  - : The client is capable of authenticating using [discoverable credentials](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#discoverable_credentials_and_conditional_mediation).
```

    This means that the client supports workflows where the credentials can be silently fetched/auto-filled on sign in.
    This capability is equivalent to [`isConditionalMediationAvailable()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/isConditionalMediationAvailable_static) resolving to `true`.
- `hybridTransport`
  - : The client supports usage of the [hybrid](/en-US/docs/Web/API/AuthenticatorAttestationResponse/getTransports#hybrid) transport.

>     This means the the client can use authenticators that rely on Bluetooth, NFC or USB.

Author: FWIW I don't know how you'd change your UI with this information - I mean in "abstract" I can imagine adding a prompt "connect your authenticator now" but you'd need to also do test for NFC, and USB being supported anyway.

Reviewer: Yeah, I think that is basically it. You can communicate to the user what types of authenticator they can use.

Author: ```suggestion
    This means that the client can use authenticators that rely on Bluetooth, NFC or USB.
```

- `passkeyPlatformAuthenticator`
  - : The client supports usage of a passkey platform authenticator, locally and/or via hybrid transport.

>     These authenticators enable passwordless multi-factor authentication, providing proof of possession of a credential private key provide and requiring a second authentication mechanism such as a PIN or biometric check.

Author: Yeah, that sux. What it was supposed to say is that you have to have a physical "thing" that grants access (which holds the credential's private key) and you require a user check to use it. 

I've updated in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/37734/files#r1936651860

It is still a little unclear to me if in reality all discoverable credentials are passkeys, and/or what differentiates a passkey from other discoverable credentials. Do you know?

>     These authenticators enable passwordless multi-factor authentication, providing proof of possession of a credential private key provide and requiring a second authentication mechanism such as a PIN or biometric check.

Reviewer: AIUI, passkeys are basically the main available use case for discoverable credentials right now, implemented by Google. Others may be available in the future, hence me saying "for example passkey" in my PR, to future proof the text.

- `signalCurrentUserDetails`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalCurrentUserDetails()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalCurrentUserDetails_static) static method.
- `signalUnknownCredential`
  - : The client supports the [`PublicKeyCredential.signalUnknownCredential()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential/signalUnknownCredential_static) static method.

The [web extension](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions) strings are formatted by prefixing the [extension identifier](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions#available_extensions) with the prefix `extension:`.
For example, the key `extension.appid` can be used to check if the [`appid` extension](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API/WebAuthn_extensions#appid) is supported.

### Exceptions

The returned {{jsxref("Promise")}} may be rejected with the following values:

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : The Web Authentication API is not allowed in the current browsing context.

>     For example, it might be blocked by a permission policy.

Author: I'm going to leave for now because it is unspecified. Asking in https://github.com/w3c/webauthn/issues/2251

## Description

The method allows you to check if a given capability or extension is supported, and use the information offer an appropriate user experience.

For example, support for the `userVerifyingPlatformAuthenticator` capability indicates that biometrics such as a fingerprint sensor are allowed.
A web application could use this to display a fingerprint icon if the capability is supported, or a password input if it is not.
If biometric login is required, then it could instead provide notification that the site cannot authenticate using this browser or device.
Similarly, `conditionalGet` indicates that the client supports conditional mediation when signing in a user, which allows for the browser to silently autofill credentials.

> In this case the user might simply be offered a sign-in button in order to log in to the site.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> If the value of a given capability is present in the map, then `true` indicates that the capability is currently supported, and `false` indicates that it is not.

Author: Thanks, FYI originally I though this was a JavaScript `Map`, before I ran code and found out IDL records translate to JavaScript objects. So this was old thinking not properly cleaned up.

However if a key is not present for a particular capability, no assumptions can be made about the availability of the associated feature.

> For an extension the assumptions are the same, but note that generally if an extension is implemented the value will be `true`.

Author: A good point. This was from spec or explainer, but I can't find the original, and it doesn't seem useful to say in either case. I.e. you check the value, you don't then think "duh, its implemented, I should have thought this might be true."

```suggestion
For an extension the assumptions are the same.
```

Note though, that even if the extension is supported by the client a particular authenticator may not support that extension, so RPs must not assume that this is a guarantee that the authenticator processing steps for that extension will be performed.

> If the key is not present for an extension then a Relying Party (RP) can't assume that client processing steps for that extension will be carried out by this client or that the extension will be forwarded to the authenticator.

Reviewer: suggesting "Relying Party (RP)" -> "RP", as one of my earlier suggestions provides the RP expansion near the start.

## Examples

### Check all capabilities

This example shows how to get the capabilities object and iterates its values.

```html hidden
<pre id="log"></pre>

> <button id="reset" type="button">Reset</button>

Author: Normally WillB suggests adding them because he doesn't see the sense of a static dynamic example. I'm happy to remove them, because I do - the point is to show live data, not that it is dynamic.

> <button id="reset" type="button">Reset</button>

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

```js hidden
const logElement = document.querySelector("#log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText = `${logElement.innerText}${text}\n`;
  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}

> 
> const reload = document.querySelector("#reset");
> 
> reload.addEventListener("click", () => {
>   window.location.reload(true);
> });

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 250px;
  overflow: scroll;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

#### JavaScript

First we await `getClientCapabilities()` to get an object containing the capabilities.
We then iterate the object and log the result (logging code not shown):

```js
async function checkClientCapabilities() {
  const capabilities = await PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities();

  if (capabilities) {
    log("Client Capabilities:");

    for (const [key, value] of Object.entries(capabilities)) {
      log(` ${key}: ${value}`);
    }
  }
}
```

Before calling the function we check that it is defined, and log the result.

```js
// Call the function to check capabilities.

> if (typeof PublicKeyCredential.getClientCapabilities === "function") {

Author: Yes. Fixed.
